[Music]
n
this
[Music]
[Applause]
oh
[Music]
he
all right we are live uh Al and learning
hi everybody welcome to another show uh
today I'm joined by the one the only the
amazing the inimitable uh Dave uh Kramer
I hope I didn't bot your first or
surname there sir oh we're all good but
I don't think I'm you're humble me
though what you humble me though oh no
no anybody who anybody who supports as
uh interesting an effort as you do is
deserves all the honor I can throw at
them um uh I'm really glad you're here I
I'm a
huge uh postest fan and you uh I'm told
do some of the work and when I say I'm
told I mean by the internet and Decades
of um articles code and uh discussions
that's what tells me um can you
introduce yourself before I butcher it
sure um my name is Dave Kramer I have
been working on uh post press for longer
than I cared to admit to somewhere
around 1999 even before postgress was
cool um I'm a Canadian currently living
in Florida some people may ask why but
that's where I'm at weather's fine uh so
the uh first post press work goes I've
been the maintainer of the postrest jdbc
driver since 1999 I've also picked up
some other work uh with plr very know
it's a procedural language for R I
recently uh picked up the odbc driver as
well so I'm maintaining that moved that
to GitHub seeing a lot of good uptake on
that and that's sort of where I'm at at
this oh I'm currently work for Amazon
too in the open source in the open
source Community Amazon is now you know
got a fairly substantial postgress open
source team that's uh dedicated solely
to work on the postgress project really
that's wonderful that's that's wonderful
I mean post is it's
I've never felt like it was particularly
vendor uh driven you know I I don't I
can't point to the com the company
behind it you
know uh because I don't feel like there
is one Maybe I'm Wrong maybe I'm just an
idiot is there any single company that
we could have said at any point in the
last 30 years was the company to go to
to affect change in that project or is
it just has it always been a sort of
loose Coalition
of
contributors that's an interesting
question where you worded
it you know that that affected change I
think I think there was a couple things
you know uh there was a long time ago
actually uh a guy named Ned Lily tried
to create a company and it was he was a
little too uh he was a little ahead of
us time it was called Great Bridge at
the time and it had uh a number of the
core members in it I think it was
probably
in the
early 2000s when he tried to do that and
it didn't succeed but then uh we had
another company uh Enterprise DB they
were kind
of they did a lot of marketing so there
was a there was a perception that they
were the postgress company that's sort
of never been true um they did a lot of
of
uh work on that and a friend of mine
just told me that great bridge was 2001
um
wow enter Enterprise DB actually it's
funny you mentioned that uh oh hello hi
every we we started if you're wondering
it's live right now hello when you're as
you come into the chat group uh just let
us know where you're coming from because
uh I guess you're in the east coast uh
and I'm in the west coast of the United
States at the moment so I'm winning
where all these wonderful people who are
joining us are from uh by definition
it'll be you know nine o'clock in Paris
and uh uh 8 o'clock in the UK and
extrapolate from that a few hours more
and you're already looking at midnight
you know in or near uh India and then uh
very early in the morning way too early
to wake up yet uh in East
Asia and so on hello from Algeria hello
so thanks for joining us um okay so
anyway yeah so you mentioned Enterprise
DB that's a that's actually a very I do
remember them are they still around I
don't know they very much still around
they actually actually are pretty
significant so when you asked the
question it was like effective change
that's an interesting question because
the people that affect change are the
are the are the core contributors and
the people that are writing code so
we've always been sort of distributed
across a number of companies in fact the
organization is is you know there's
there's the organization is interesting
because there's a core group of people
that are kind of the
uh they they have you know the power to
make you a make you a committer or not
make you a committer and do things like
that and they by Design there's no they
make sure that there's no way that any
more than I believe any more there's no
majority in any one company and right
and um in fact at one point you know
somebody moved from one place to another
and there was a majority so they
actually had to add core people to
balance it out and then after that
there's the all the contrib all the
committers are like literally all over
companies but now we're we're seeing a
little bit of consolidation into sort of
the hyperscalers Amazon and Microsoft
particularly as well as EDB so there
there's the three largest if I you know
group them all together that's the three
largest committers yeah uh but
Enterprise DBI give them credit at least
for being first because I I remember
them back in 2004 2005 they were talking
about
um they had a I remember the original
the reason reason I first learned about
them was that there was a Erp thing
called cier yep that was or Oracle only
and they had Enterprise DB had done a
port of it that made it work on their
Oracle like Oracle compatible post you
know um how much of that work has since
been Consolidated and actually just
merged Upstream like do you still need a
separate is it still a separate effort
to do Oracle compatible or are those
just part of core posters at this point
I wonder I don't think there's a whole I
don't think a lot of that got merged in
they Enterprise DB still sort of sells
that as a as a product you know their
Oracle compatibility layer there is some
Oracle compatibility but it's not too
much I mean we we've
the project itself is not that we don't
really Bend towards you know it works in
Oracle so let's make it work here kind
of thing so that doesn't happen too much
but yeah Enterprise DB certainly had
mind share for a long time yeah they
were first and they did you know Market
postgress quite quite a bit um then you
know obviously more recently we've got
the bigger companies come or you know
the hyperscalers coming along and
obviously marketing it well I I've I
uh my first integ introduction to post
was in the
90s and and the reason it was in the 90s
was because that was as opposed to like
the early 90s when I first started using
computers was because that was my first
introduction to Linux and uh you know I
don't think people appreciate that up
until you know version 8 there was no
windows Port oh yeah that was about 8.4
I think or 8.5 so yeah which meant that
if you're one of those people who was
trying to get an app out the door and
you're on the very large majority of the
operating systems out there that are
using or the the deployments out there
that are using Windows up until that
release which now is in the distant past
but at the time it was you know decades
into post's life already um there was no
windows Port so like you had to like run
and this is before virtual machines were
OB equitus or and certainly not Docker
was Docker was not there you know uh and
I sort of
think cynically uh that that my sequel
had the day in the very
beginning because it was like like a
cockroach it was just everywhere you
know you know like and you could run it
on Windows it wasn't particularly well
suited to running Windows but it did run
there and uh you know it was easy to get
started and and whereas with posters I
think post I mean I've always loved
posters it is the better database in my
uh not so humble opinion but uh it was
just so painful to get started now of
course you know Docker you know who
cares it's it's I can run I can run a
thousand postes before most people can
whistle um you know it's just an amazing
result but uh I think that cost post a
little bit of time I always wondered
about this I think about this a lot like
why did why did this provably inferior
thing ever get more popular than posts
you know like why why why why and uh I I
have I have some opinions on that I
think the other so there was two in my
mind there's two big issues there one is
there was a perception of speed
difference between MySQL and postgress
so
you know one of the one of the downfalls
if you will of postgress is that we
shipped with a very very extremely
conservative configuration so you know
uh when you started it up you got very
little memory and you and so if if you
ran any queries of any size you know
they were very very slow you had to tune
it to make it work and uh you know that
that didn't help us but it did run on
everything and so that that was the
reason why it was shipped that way
secondly um I think the lamp stack was
uh just ubiquitous at the time right so
it was like you downloaded the lamp
stack and you got you
know you got SQL but you got Apache and
you got uh PHP or whatever you know
right and and you could you you could
write some code and I do think that
there and the one thing about my sequel
was it was pretty forgiving if you made
mistakes like if you put in
a you know to the point where it would
actually accept bad data so you know it
didn't error out so you know for people
that were not sort of uh computer
science experts it kind of did
everything for them you know they could
they could get their application up and
running and they didn't have to fight
with it and then you know they were able
to you know turn a dime and way you goes
but postest you know you had to be a
little bit more careful you had to get
everything right it was a little more
exacting and that didn't really that's
not a you know it's not as pedestrian
let's say as you know my sequel so I
think that I think you're right there
was a huge uh mind share that people had
for a while that post now we're now I
think what we're seeing now though is
the Enterprises are going you know we
can't accept bad data we we want
transactions to actually work and you
know we can actually get the the
performance out of postgress that we
need so you know that's where we're
starting to you know the curve is
definitely going the other way oh oh for
sure and I actually there so one of the
things I'm always reminded of is back in
the early 2000s we you know we heard all
the time that Google was using my SQL
for AdWords right and I remember just
thinking well of course they're using my
SQL for AdWords it's a nosql database
this is the original highly highly fast
uh nosql database in that at the time
the default configuration of my SQL was
my iasm which was the table engine that
thing didn't understand referential
Integrity it didn't actually care you it
would silently accept if you said this
key references that table that ID it
would would silently accept that ddl for
the foreign key and then not do anything
when you insert a data that didn't
reference a valid ID right it didn't
actually honor the constraint it what's
the point of a relational database that
doesn't understand
relationships right like it's it was it
was broken by default so of course it's
fast if you don't have to honor
referential integrity then then yeah
fine you can be real fast Dev no is
super fast too you know I just oh so
grading I couldn't believe this thing
was actually allowed to ship and people
were like oh this is a great database no
it's not it's a base there's data that I
could trust actually it also didn't it
didn't wasn't
transactional
yeah so yeah of course it's gonna scale
it doesn't have to do anything you know
um and uh but meanwhile I saw this great
video a few weeks ago uh was it this
YouTuber Anton Putra um has some really
great videos and uh let me see if I can
find the one here he Compares uh post
[Music]
videos he Compares a postes to my squel
about a month ago right and like for the
very large majority of use cases postz
just crushes my SQL now in terms of like
memory for uh you know the number of
transactions and the ability to to
sustain the transactions and uh uh just
performance and so on and he does you
know does a benchmarking he demonstrates
all the benchmarks he does um I'm not
saying it's a a clean sweep across the
board there are some places where posts
could improve surely but fact that it is
definitely clear that you you're better
off using post watching this video I'll
link it here um I thought this was very
insightful there you go that's him I it
was just a really good I mean yeah so
you're saying you know now it's starting
to turn the page I think for sure it is
so if you look at this uh video he's got
um let me see CPU usage for postz is a
little bit low lower after like 10
minutes of sustain load testing uh he's
got a he's got what some people have
because they you know they no true
Scotsman right they're always there's
always a moving goalpost but basically
he's got like five tables that have
foreign keys and references and uh they
do he does some joins and nothing like
it's not an Erp solution right it's not
it's not cier or Salesforce whatever but
but it's still a squl data data
structure uh where post just seems to
just decimate the the alternative he's
looking at memory usage here memory
usage for post crit stays at like 6% all
the way through and then 14% for MySQL
queries per second seems to scale
linearly with both MySQL and post
quiz uh select latency P90 is basically
the same for post quiz and then but
actually post quiz has this uh no it's
actually a little it's actually like
half uh depending on where you're
looking at there's little burps but
basically on average it seems like it's
uh better for post it's just a really
it's a good result I mean this is I you
know when people say oh post is postgis
is slow or what I don't know what you're
talking about anymore it just doesn't
make any sense you know uh it's clearly
very very good and uh if it weren't you
know I don't know that there are all
these large organizations that were that
would be using it now and I I asked um
Claude the AI because I don't want to do
you know me I
I'm I I tried doing research once and uh
that was a you know that was a bad year
so so anyway I asked uh the uh the AI um
what it thought were organizations and
sites that that us posts okay so it
mentioned Apple for various internal
systems Instagram primary database scale
to massive uses massive usage Reddit
main data store Skype main database for
user data twitch core database I don't
know how old these references are you
know I don't know if this is like a case
study from 10 years ago if they just
published this last week I don't know I
have no idea spot Spotify for large
scale analytics Discord for core data
storage Milla Firefox sync add-ons crash
reports uh NASA apparently uses it for
various projects the FAA US state
department French National Social
Security European Space Agency Financial
Services revolute the core banking Robin
Hood transferwise Japanese Banks Goldman
Sachs education research CERN MIT
Harvard Yale University of California
system I don't know if it's
hallucinating all this by the way I have
no idea and I don't expect you to tell
me it could be all wrong I have no idea
it's just this is the question is what
are some large organizations and sites
uh uh built with postgress right I I
even misspelled postgress
so um open Street m app of course using
uh
postgis um Reddit uses it for multiple
postris clusters heavy read write loads
uh complex relationship data vote
tracking system um Instagram apparently
uses it I don't know I mean this is it's
even if half of these are right there's
no doubt that you can do big things with
postes at this point right like a uh
just an amazing amazing piece of
tech I I think I think those you know I
listen to to the people you know the
companies you mentioned I think they
they're probably mostly right I I I
don't have direct evidence that they're
right but I'm rather sure that they're
pretty close I mean I'm I'm aware of
NASA I'm aware of you know some of the
other financial institutions but I think
the other thing that's happening though
right now is that you know you talk
about MySQL and you know oracle now is
the only company uh developing it and
where whereas we now have postgress
being developed and you know everybody's
working you know we have some very smart
people working for you know Microsoft
Google Amazon EDB and they're all
interested improving it whereas you know
I don't think we have that kind of
ecosystem in the in the myl world so
know the open source Maria DB is that
still a thing I don't know whatever it's
still a thing but I don't again you know
we don't have the I don't I just don't
think they have the the uh
horsepower you know paying attention to
it that we do in postgress to put it
bluntly right I mean there's some very
smart people working on it now yeah
really really smart and it's a it's a
ecosystem project as opposed to just the
this one Consolidated thing I'm a big
fan huge fan so can you tell us a little
bit about
about I I don't I I don't mean to put
you on the spot here but can you give us
some of the the lower behind it you know
uh you know Stone breaker and uh Ingress
and all that like the basics so I don't
really know that much about what that
what happened there which is saying
something because you started 30 years
ago almost uh and the fact that this
stuff precedes you even well yeah that's
the interesting thing I think you know
19 so I think there was like postgress
95 or something and and that's when they
actually added the SQL part to to
postgress before that it didn't actually
have SQL a squl interface to it but and
Stonebreaker wasn't that interested in
it at that time you know he's he's he's
sort of come full circle he's now
interested he's actually I think on the
EDB board of directors okay but you know
so yeah he he had sort of you know gone
on to other things at the time but as
far as you know the kind of the lore I
mean the interesting thing I I
I have an anecdote of how I got started
because it was
interesting way back way back then of
course there was sort of nobody working
on it it was like you know maybe 10
people working on this project right and
so you know I the the uh a friend of
mine I'd asked a friend of mine all so I
started I I I quit my job and I started
doing consulting and I so I I was doing
Java Consulting and I was into into you
know post graphs and a little bit but I
had a I had a contract and I had a
problem and so I I had bought a
Microsoft uh support contract so I so I
had a problem so I I thought I'd you
know asked this the support contract you
know how do I solve this problem I said
well we'll get back to in three months
oh me this is back in 1999 right this is
like a you know back in in the Stone
Age this point so I but this this is not
really you know a feasible solution here
so I started looking at open source and
so I asked a friend of mine I says you
know how do you how do you get involved
in open source and he says just go on
The Mailing and start answering every
question you again so of course I went
on the jdbc list because that's what I
was doing I was doing Java so I'm
starting to answer all these questions
right so you know the first question
takes couple days to figure out second
question takes you know few few hours
later few hours less and by the time
you're you've answered like 100
questions you're you're able to answer
them without actually looking anything
up so and at the time there was I didn't
actually write the jdbc driver there
another guy wrote the driver and but he
decided he didn't want to do this
anymore so Bruce Momin who's one of the
core members of postgress and he's been
around at least a few years longer than
me asked me if I wanted to do it I said
sure So that's sort of where it started
from so that's you know before it was
cool to work on postgress I was working
on postgress but it you know it was uh
that's sort how it started for me and
then you know at the time I was sort of
a part-time thing and then eventually
got a few gigs that I was getting paid
for it and you know started working for
it this is like
um this kind of involvement is it's
organic right you start with something
you're you're scratching your own itch
right that's what we say about open
source people who are are getting into
something and they're that's the those
are the best people because they always
have they know what it looks like to not
feel the itch anymore you know they know
what it looks like what to have the salv
work um and so they're the best judge of
what success looks like when you make
changes to the code um but I to to to so
there was already a working jdbc driver
at the time that's oh yeah oh yeah there
was a working jdbc driver yep so
remember for folks who aren't quite
aware if you're talking about 1999
remember jdbc didn't exist as much of a
thing before 98 is right so the fact
that there was already a good one for
post was pretty phenomenal there wasn't
even J2 at that point that was still
just jdbc as a separate thing that would
then be used uh in j2e um later on so
that was that's pretty amazing um and
it's interesting also that you mentioned
the obbc stuff so obbc is of course the
windows object database connectivity uh
thing
and in jdbc there are four different
kinds of drivers at least that's I
remember from decades ago right you have
uh like model one model two model three
model four right um um and uh they're
they're based on how do you implement
the driver is it like a a what is it
what is the difference it's like do you
prefer only Java or is it a wrapper
around some n code or is it a proxy for
something you know we're we we're we're
a layer for or version four or whatever
it's fully implemented fully implemented
in Java we actually implement the postr
protocol there's not there's a couple of
projects that do that also implement the
protocol um and so I think you know um
but yeah so jdbc was actually modeled
after obbc for better for worse right I
think it's for worse
but because odbc was not particularly a
great thing so no but I mean so but for
Java to get that that boost in the very
beginning that's why we had these
different uh affordances in the kinds of
models that you could build types of
drivers a lot of the a lot of the
earliest drivers for Java were actually
rappers around the native obbc code uh
and that mapped fairly straight
forwardly to uh one to the other in
terms of concept so you could get like
like you said in the first year or the
first two years of jdbc I remember these
drivers coming up so the fact that
there's a post one and it's a pure was
it always a pure play Java one or was it
ever like a it was pure always it was
always
pure that's the hardest one to do and
it's worth I mean it pays dividends if
you can get it right but well we're
still trying to get it
[Laughter]
right surpris surprisingly there's still
bugs in it oh I mean it's such a complex
database surely um is the implementation
of the driver like n Java I mean Java
nio this is the thing that blows my mind
Java nio came out half a decade later
right like more than half a decade later
um so did you integrate that
retroactively or is that are you using
that at all is it still just Java iio
input stream or just Java IO input
stream which is which so there so
interesting enough there was somebody
that wrote an nio driver and for for
postgress and for a long time the
blocking driver was faster so I'm sure
Point um but it it does come with some
you know there are some issues that we
have with the blocking driver such as
you know postgress has this thing of
listen to notify and we because it's a
blocking driver we don't get any we
don't get the notifies because we have
to actually do a query to get the
notifiers
so sorry the PG notifi
the notifi there's a notify listen thing
and you know it comes synchronously so
you don't always get it but I've I've
actually done videos on that one that's
a pretty cool feature um speaking of
since I have you can I ask you about the
virtual threads support story like sure
it does it yes okay next
question but uh about a year ago
somebody went through all the code and
removed all the synchronized code
however now that we've removed it all
and of course I think I'm not sure which
version of of java actually supports uh
21 21 so we could actually put the
synchronized back in so oh Oh you mean
the pinning oh that's 24 that'll be uh
yeah four months from now yeah so
however you know um it's an interesting
problem ja Java the enter ja Java
Enterprise moves very very very
slowly we we still support Java 1 .8
because we have a lot of C we we just
can't get off of it because the
Enterprise doesn't move as fast as
everybody else there's nobody you know
they're they're just using 1.8 so you
know whether not we support uh threading
or not it's another somewhat irrelevant
to
us I mean I mean to the extent that you
can just sort of maintain the same code
base and have it do the right thing
better with no change in Java 24 and
later like you could in the you could
have the synchronized blocking code from
java 8 which would
perform you know expectedly poorly by
comparison uh and then just
automatically benefit from the jbm's
magic virtual thread support in Java 24
that's that's pretty cool that's
actually is actually that's one of the
coolest things about Java the jvm is
pretty amazing I mean the work the work
that has been done in the jvm you know
people kind of go oh it's Java I kind of
got some you know the bad news is J the
jbm is pretty fre amazing so
um I
I find
it it's an interesting ecosystem to work
in because of because of all the work
that's been done in the jbm I mean you
get cotlin you get groovy you get grow
you get all these things that you can
you know you can use oh yeah I mean I
use so I'm using virtual threads I'm
using grow VM I'm using postgrad like
the stack fun I'm using spring I'm using
the J I'm using Java or cotlin the stack
fundamentally has not changed I would
have been using spring 20 years ago I
would have been using postgress 20 years
ago not grm but the fact that I can get
grm native images and virtual threads
from the same exact code upgraded to use
the latest libraries you know
is I don't think there's any other
ecosystem that has that kind of
capability no um so you okay so so the
jdbc thing uh is a full Java driver and
it's at this point by the way do you
have any anecdotal information on
whether it performs as well or scales as
well performs as in in terms of I can
get a response back from a single query
and then versus and then then the other
question is does it scale as well that
is to say can I handle you know more
requests at the same time do you have
any idea uh excuse me anecdotally on uh
its performance relative to say obbc or
python or
whatever oh I don't have any of that
information I mean you know that's a
very that's a tough tough thing to to
answer I mean the biggest challenge
there is that when is you know R is uh
not multi-threaded it's process based so
the connection is there's a onetoone
relationship between the connection a
lot a lot of the
time for the response isn't actually in
the driver the time for the response is
in the time it takes to get to the
server the time it takes to get back the
time it takes for the server to actually
do things how much time it takes in the
in the actual driver is probably
insignificant amount of time we have
seen some speed UPS in sort of being
able to run things in uh binary mode uh
there there's a in the in the postgress
protocol you can ask for information in
text mode or in binary mode so we've
actually seen a huge speed up in you
know recently you mentioned Ai and stuff
there's a pretty popular extension
called PG vector and uh when they first
implemented that everything was coming
back in text and uh you know one of my
colleagues mentioned that this was a
little slow and I said oh well you can
do this in binaries oh okay cool that
like speed it up like almost double the
speed right away so um that was all that
was that was all built into the driver
that was you know it was very easy to do
that in the
driver I use the I I do presentations
where I talk to people about the PG
postgis plus the vector plugin right PG
Vector um uh all the time I mean it's I
just did a presentation at midnight
California time this morning you know
for some folks in the in the UK for
example and uh I quite like that I mean
the fact that I can just use
good old friendly post guys and take it
to these New Frontiers is one of the
reasons why I love post because I don't
feel quite so locked you know like
you're not logged in if you have access
to every plugin out there right like it
there's no such thing as locked in here
and to the extent that I can actually
get some of the same benefits just using
my old friend postc as I might by
switching to a a completely different
data store like uh like well pick you
know have your pick right I mean there's
a million of them uh is one of the
reasons why I love it is is it's just
incredible ecosystem my question then is
what is the interaction with the driver
when a plug-in adds new things to the
server like how does it like how does
the driver know what to do with a a
vector uh coming back from the server
for example what does that look like is
there any coordination there what about
postgis when postgis adds geospatial
constructs to the server does that I
don't even understand how that I mean do
you have to have a conversation with it
because it's not like an official part
of postcript right it's a third party
thing how does the Java code learn about
it so so let me answer the first
question about PG vectors so we actually
so in the PG Vector I think he actually
created a PG Vector type so he was able
to you know there there are um custom
types and post Quest so you you get the
type coming back the type information is
in the protocol then you know how to
handle it then you can read it into your
into a custom object in the Java world
the driver really doesn't get involved
in that now in the case of postgis yes
uh the guys from postgis wrote a whole
lot of code to actually handle all the
different kind of custom types in there
so but it's all done with custom types
so they actually it's referred to in in
the SQL world as domains but you know or
or uni uh user defined types but that's
all done sort of in the postc protocol
but you're right though that the the
ecosystem and the flexibility of postc
is probably one of the other big reasons
we didn't mention that and you know why
is postgress so much better but you know
like said we have you know forget about
jdbc there's if there's a post if
there's a computer language there is a
there is a driver for it in post in
postgress if there's if there's a reason
to have an extension there's an
extension for postgress so you know that
you can you know we have uh we recently
added Json which basically makes it a
nosql
database Oh you mean you're not talking
about a PLP like a PL Json you're
talking about like in the as a data type
yeah data type okay okay right right
that yeah totally you store unstructured
data and have it transactional oh I know
you can also do a like a you can select
attributes from the Jason structure like
their columns in a table yes is that
recent I thought that was been there for
a while I there for a while but I mean
the fact that you the fact that we could
just add add Json to it and it wasn't
that difficult to do right it was you
know right the harder thing was the
harder thing for us was litigating how
we were going to do it which is one of
the things we we're very good at in
postgress right well I mean Gotta Get It
Right millions of people will be
affected if you get it wrong I
understand a little the The Liberation
um so what so the post thing I guess
what I'm trying to say oh uh that's a
you've got a comment about your beard
apparently your white beard is
awesome so there's that very nice nice
thing um I so did did the post guys the
the postgis stuff require any
coordination in the driver I mean I I
have noidea I have no idea what they did
do I I literally I mean I used to work
with Paul Ramsey who's the one of the
postgis guys and Martin and they wrote
All That code and I have literally no
idea what it
does
right they don't they don't they didn't
talk to me what about what had to be
done and I didn't have to help them with
anything it worked it all works without
any kind of coordination between the two
of us which is pretty amazing right like
but how do I get a strongly typed Java
type pointing to a thing that EX in post
oh because they actually created the
types in the Java
driver they added so when they not in
the Java driver when they when they get
the you can get an object back right so
you can do get object from the results
and when they get the object they get
their type back okay yeah it just builds
a type I guess I need to try I have a
I'm unclear obviously about how
this because I'm so used to using the
the posts some stuff from uh spring that
uh uh layer which somebody's done the
work for you already but yeah we we
actually do have a few types right we
have PG box and so some other little
types but we don't really do too much
with too many other types right okay so
that's what yeah I guess say you can can
reg you can register a type with the oid
so if you know the O so the oid is the
uh ID of the there's a there's a
metadata table and catalog table in
postgress which is called PG type you
can add so when you add a type you can
it has an oid and when you so when the
results head comes back you get an O ID
and you can say okay this oid maps to
this GIS object and automatically know
how to read
it oh oh so it's literally just a a
table so oh yeah so that's a cool so
that's the cool thing you know postgress
is actually objectoriented if you look
at the if you look if it's it's an if
you look at the catalog it is all like
an object oriented catalog everything
has a has everything is has an ID
everything references other things in
the in the catalog and you know you
could you you know you can build a an
object model for the
catalog huh I I never realized it was
that easy to like
connect I mean I I you know if there's
only something that was missing I would
be incentivized to try and figure out
how to write a plugin but there are no
gaps uh that I could foresee and so
therefore there's no reason for me to
learn um uh yeah that's amazing okay
that's interesting I didn't realize it
was that direct a connection um do other
drivers benefit from that same mapping
I'm I'm sure they must oh absolutely
they can do exactly the same thing
there's nothing magic about what we do
we we you know we'll get back you know
you'll you so basically you know when
you when you make a request you get the
fields first and the fields have an ID
in them or an O ID which tell you what
the field is and if the field is you
know a you know a square or you know a
rectangle or whatever you get the oid
back for it and then you know okay how
this is how I read it you know even with
an arrays arrays are the same sort of
thing there's a there's a complicated
mechanism for knowing how to read an
array out of out of the protocol
right oh man it's really good um that
the
uh you mentioned that earlier that it's
a process per
uh request it's process per connection
connection yeah assign so on the server
side there's a whole process it's not
it's not a thread it's actually a
process like it's it's not a thread it's
a process you're spawning a new thing um
uh what are the I guess that makes
concurrent I mean that is that why you
have mvcc like is that why you have to
be so careful about that's not really
why you have MC mvcc um because you have
no semaphores in the language anymore
right it's now process based so how else
would you create exclusionary views
besides that well that that is how that
is how we create exclusionary views but
it's you know you could do that with
threading just as easily mbcc is just a
technique to have exclusionary views um
so but we there is a actually you know
some people in the community that want
to try to do multi-threading we'll see
how that
goes I mean it couldn't be a you know I
me famous as words of course but it
could be good right like that that
sounds pretty interesting like a the
overhead of having a
process Oracle apparently Oracle tried
it and the results weren't exactly what
they thought they were going to get
so huh okay now I'm
nervous wait so they're gonna try it in
post proper or they gonna like create a
for there's a there's a group of people
that think that multi-thread is the way
to go so they're they're and they're
smart like they're not these are guys
that are that I hold in high esteem so I
I'm I'm interested to see how things go
we'll see how it goes
yeah that' be I mean that would be
really cool because again this is one of
those things where if you're using post
um people like that can do things like
that you upgrade to postz you know
whatever 30 or whatever in some years uh
and suddenly you've got hopefully even
better scalability just for free you're
you've done nothing just you know I mean
these are the kinds of Epic engineering
efforts that take decades or years I
mean even virtual threads in the jvm
took more than a decade to really come
to fruition you know I do I do think the
databases are a little different and far
as as far as you know whether or not
multi-threading is going to work because
ultimately that comes down to resolving
conflicts on the disc so you know we
can't you know I recently had a
conversation with somebody who wrote an
application and thought they could just
multi-thread this this application and
sort of run it on a database and it
would just sort of magically work and I
said well jdbc isn't
multi-threaded and he says oh yeah I
found that
out so it was it was like a
he he I was I'm I guess I I'm I've been
in the database world for so long that I
just sort of take that for granted that
you know ultimately we have to talk to a
dis right you know we can't just sort of
you know ask for data all over the place
at the same time and expect to get a
concurrent you know a a view of the data
that's um correct you know right out of
every thread right no somebody's gonna
get the old stale view um right or block
I guess which is what we want to avoid
with
nbcc um yeah but theidea the idea that
you could actually have all these
threads just hitting the database and
sort of working magically was something
that was he didn't realize that this was
going to happen
now so I so if we moved to a
multi-threaded approach you're saying
there' still be synchronization
ultimately at the very last line of
defense because only one person can
truly make a change there at the same
time right yeah right and so you might
but it would it would in the meantime
have the effect of lowering the
Redundant uh process space yeah yeah
yeah it it does make some things easier
like currently we have to have shared
buffers to you know communicate between
processes we have to we as you said we
have to spawn up a process to get
started that's an expensive that's
expensive uh you know that's why things
like you know we have connection pools
that exist PG bouncer is one of the
famous ones that's why those actually
exist because it is expensive to to to
spin up a process so if you were just
multi-threaded it would be you know
there's no process to start um just
start a thread and way you
go yeah um that's another thing I mean
the the tool the database has um over
the decades it has become more and more
critical to large scale uh systems and
services about which we just spoke you
know some minutes ago I I uh what are
some of the you mentioned PG bouncer
that's a connection pull on the server
side there are obviously on the Java
side and the C there's obviously
different connection pools as well by
the way what is your what do you know
about connection pools on the Java side
which one should people people be using
oh God I'm not answering that question
okay just
wondering I we we tend to use Hikari but
I I don't have an opinion really I mean
okay that's what we're using I just
wanted to know if we're like basically
on the right track um but on the on the
server side you've got all these things
that are not exactly SQL standards but
that exist in all the databases in
different incarn ations uh and that
serve to support scale right and and to
do so as transparently as possible so in
post because I know about a few of these
things obviously mentioned PG bouncer
there's also a a sharding you know you
can do uh table sharding for example to
partitioning you mean partitioning yeah
thank you um uh what else you've got
clustering I guess how what's the story
for clustering these days what do people
use there for like read versus write uh
nodes is that a so the so the popular
open source cluster if you will is is
Patron um you know uh there's a few
people out there so that that is you
know basically a one right one writer
know one primary multiple readers yeah
there are a couple of you know
Enterprise DB has a proprietary solution
for doing uh you know mult you know
primary primary um but as far as
clusters go supported by Pro the
postgress community we don't have a
solution we you know we're we're sort of
singly focused on providing a single
instance which I think is I think has to
change person this is my opinion not not
the not the postgress opinion but I
think I think you know um I personally
believe or
personally see or don't see anybody ever
running a single version of you single
instance of postgress in any kind of
scale so I think it would be a good
thing if the postgress community could
you know figure how to at least make
clustering easier for people you know
add some features in to make it
easier yeah I mean that would be that
would be really good and the fact that
it the fact that it works is uh you know
pretty amazing um there are but I think
if you also had some better support you
know built in as you say I wonder what
effect that would have if any on uh you
know there there are the uh there are
different databases that purport to be
post
compatible or wire protocol compatible
or whatever um but there are you know
they're they're they're not exactly post
are they right they're they're postgres
with some modifications or maybe they've
ripped apart the engine a little bit or
whatever so you got the uh coach TB the
yugabyte these other sort of postc likes
um that are that whose is to bring the
joy of the postr uh modeling and and
grammar and uh and feature set to a
horizontally
scalable uh sort of sort of workload
right and um I don't
know it's not like it's not like there's
not a solution for some of this stuff
now but it would be nice as you say to
have that sort of built in I wonder if
that would be
uh I wonder what effect that would have
if anything on on these other
implementations that's a good question I
think one of the challenges we have as
as or I think one of the challenges a
community has as as a as a community is
trying to figure that out is you know as
you sort of mentioned you have to get it
right and we're kind of we're kind of
letting you know for better for worse I
think the other companies or or the
other organizations or open source
projects are trying to figure out what
is right and you know I don't think
anybody's actually got it perfect yet so
I think they're in they're all
interesting experiments the one cool
thing that they get though and one of
the great advantages of postgress is
that it is completely open source right
the postgress license allows you to
create a company for it allows you to
make money off it but when you do this
you get this huge ecosystem you get all
the extensions you get all the drivers
you get you know the protocols open
source so you know you don't have to
write like I've heard you know other
large companies with you know
multi-million dollar client uh
implementations right like they have you
know hundreds of people working on the
clients they don't you know they're
getting all that basically for free so
you know they can they get the advantage
of being able to just you know add their
uh Secret Sauce to whether it's like you
mentioned coach DB or not coach but uh
cockroach cockroach and yugabyte
and few others you know cus did it they
got cus is still around a little bit oh
yeah so cus so that was
um uh now part of azour right that's
that's
Microsoft and then Patron is the open
source like that these are both
horizontal scaling Solutions right uh is
more just a a way to manage uh you know
like a warm standby or hot standby right
yeah scales for read only read you know
read many multiple readers and one
writer yeah which I think is
actually
fairly common I would I would imagine
most sites are read only or read most
you know read mostly so that's that
seems like a very useful thing to start
trying um because the alternative is
that you get these
denormalized Solutions where you're
you're doing rights to a um you're doing
rights to a postgis but then you have a
asynchronous sort of right behind to a
redus for the read you know for the
constant time read and so having the
ability to make read scale and available
um yeah I mean it seems reasonable seems
like it would be a good first cut at
scaling out a system using post because
obviously your workloads will determine
that whether that's true or not but like
for example Reddit uh I don't know what
architecture is like but one imagines
that most people are reading Reddit as
opposed to writing to it you know yeah
for sure although I do I do think
there's a huge market for you know what
you're talking about is uh with the
other one is sort of a change data
capture and I think there's a huge
market for that I think there's a Hu
that that pattern is pretty amazing you
know especially for financial
institutions where they you know they
collect the data at the at the edge and
then they push it out to wherever and
they can have you know multiple Paths of
where that's going to um you know uh the
devium folks
yeah gunar and um love him so good so
you know he they're interesting because
they actually pushed my implementation
quite a bit so we've got a lot of uh you
know I've had i' we've had lots of you
know um collaboration there to make it
all work yeah so that's been pretty cool
doesn't surprise me that that's a really
cool that's based on the right ahead log
that you guys uh put out right the um so
that's based on logical decoding so it
is it is a right ahead log so the right
ahead log has you know it has a logical
logical stream and it also has a
physical stream or binary stream the
binary stream is used for like binary
replication but if you want to get if
you want to get something that's
readable by uh sort of a program that
you can uh the way it works is you can
actually add your own decoders to it or
and and encoders so you just get the
data and encode it and decode it any way
you
want again again is flexible just like
everything else in post right so for
people who are that I I wonder to I
wonder what of the last two minutes of
conversation makes sense uh to a lot of
people change data capture CDC is the
idea that you emit as an event the delta
in state
Transformations on the
database and uh so the idea is that you
can say this this record changed from
this to this and you publish that as an
event or something so that somebody else
can consume that and then modify their
own view of the data accordingly deum is
an open source Java project that is that
takes the log called the right ahead log
the W from postgres uh and it sends it
off via Kafka so now consumers can
listen for those changes via Kafka am I
missing anything so
far actually Deion will let you do it
anywh you want you don't have to go to C
you can go anywhere you want um so the
cool thing the cool thing is previous
the way you used have to do this is
people would create log tables so and
triggers so they would have the they
would have a notion something changed in
the database you know somebody updated
their the balance in their bank account
and then they would have it would a
trigger would fire and then the trigger
would put this data in a log table and
then somebody else would read the log
table and then delete the record right
that caused that caused a lot of churn a
lot of extra overhead on the database
and if you man to miss whatever where
CDC if if the um
with logical decoding and CDC if the
database crashes you don't lose the data
it'll still be there when you bring the
database back it is still there as long
the first thing was committed then you
don't then it's effectively gonna get
reconciled later on right yep yep yeah
so um that's super good super super good
um actually that brings me up brings me
to another question which is what is the
role of the languages you mentioned
plr uh earlier
um and I you know one of the thing I
mean I used I've used the jav there was
Java I'm not sure if there's anymore but
there was a PL Java still exist PL Java
still exists I I haven't used it in
decades but I I know it exists um and
there's PL python I remember that one
there Pearl for from decades ago I'm
sure
there's yeah uh and uh and Ruby and uh I
mean m i just everything I mean anything
tickle I'm sure there's like I mean just
every language you can imagine um you
can run as a sort of a story procedure
it is a story procedure you can write a
story procedure in any language you want
so there is you know P the sort of the
built-in one is plpg SQL that was
written by Yan week R Yan week also
wrote PL tickle but there as you said
there if there's a if there is a
language that exists in a computer
language there is probably a language a
language in the postris you know for a
procedural language in postest and this
allows you to write a proced in any
language you actually happen to want to
do
it so the store procedure so you
mentioned the triggers earlier you can
have a a trigger function that then
responds to an event in the database uh
and it could just be a simple PLP SQL uh
trigger function that does ddl or you
know some sort of thing but also you can
run Java code you can run python code in
response to a database right and that
runs in a separate process on the same
server as the post I never really
understood that part or is it in in the
same process or it's actually in process
which makes it a bit of a
challenge oh wow um uh so yeah so you
want to make sure you don't spend too
much time in those triggers doing you
don't just sit there and read the funny
papers you know you gotta get off that
execute as quick as possible right yeah
I actually did write a plg jvm which
more was more like a a remote procedural
call so it didn't actually run in
process and that never that never s of
never got anywhere other than you know
couple little oh that's a bummer is that
more like fire and forget it just sends
the request to the jvm and lets it
handle it and then y the server okay
that's really nice yeah see that's what
you would want is to
like not gum up the works in the put in
the server process itself you know um uh
but I I so you mentioned the r one how
does that like do you have the ability
to do R functions whatever whatever you
can write in R you can write in in this
function yes so how's that work like
when when these plugins are installed do
they install the r runtime and the Java
runtime and they don't install the r
runtime the r the r runtime has to be
there we just link into it it's just a
you know so there's a a an API and and
we just link into it and but you have to
install head time is it actually doing
Java minus jar or ja is it doing Java
you know Java the source code that you
provideing the function in Java so the
pl Java uses J Jenny right so it
actually just calls through jni um
oh it would have to fire up the jbm if
it wasn't running but okay but does it
that's what I'm trying to figure out
does it keep the jbm
warm in the process it would yeah yeah
and then it would run a jar yeah it
would load a jar and then run the
function in the jar so which is it
really you know it was really PL Java
existed because of Oracle Oracle wrote
their own jbm for in in the Oracle
database you know they had the advantage
there for sure so the postgress world it
doesn't it didn't really make sense
because there was you know the overhead
of running a jbm in the process was huge
yeah yeah no I get it and actually it
sounds like you got the best solution
because most of the latency in Java is
in the startup but as long as you've got
the jvm running then it's GNA be plenty
fast you
know one of the things in my spare time
which I can't find any of I'd like to do
it in Gro in Native
yes so apparently that's what they're
doing in uh Oracle that's that that is
the Genesis of uh of grm I talked to
Thomas wortinger on this very program
about a year ago uh you weren't
available at the time I I I believe we
talked um and uh uh Thomas said
that when he created grow VM one of the
things that he had to do was to you know
you know any large company you always
got to find a way to tie yourself to the
big product right and so he had this you
know dashing idea this daring idea to
build this ahead of time optimizing
compiler and of course where's where's
the connection there to uh to the money
maker Oracle database and and later
Oracle Cloud um and they realized they
could use this to actually embed Java
and have it perform really efficiently
in the database right so he created that
as that was the first like cut of the
Native image support there and then it
got generalized into a thing that could
support everybody as opposed to just the
native integration in the database
itself so yeah I think it would be
really good for that use case we know
and there's a ex existence proof in the
current implementation of
article I could only find I could only
find more few more round
TOS sorry um just because it's easier
doesn't mean it's possible because
without without time right exactly so
cool I just I mean there's this post
thing I didn't know there was an attent
I didn't realize it was a server process
uh so when you say that I cannot you
know I'm I'm sitting here giddy because
I don't really have uh look I've used
some of these uh tools to like scale out
and I've certainly been in projects
where we where we using them but I've
never really had to deploy them myself
you know to to get better availability
or or um
um uh uh consistency right I mean I mean
just all these tools to scale out and to
make my code go faster I didn't realize
that was all being done despite the fact
that it was all in in process it was a
process based
thing what was interesting you use the
word despite the pro despite the fact
the fact that it's in process it does it
is pretty pretty efficient so it's you
know yeah like imagine if we
if I mean if if these people are right
and there is something to that that
would be just I cannot wait I mean
that's like a Christmas you wake up in
Sunday post is even better somehow you
know yeah what about okay so the the
code base for post is C and C++ the code
base is actually just pretty much C okay
and uh does that make life fun or oh
yeah oh
yeah so so it was originally written in
lisp so there's like really yeah really
when it was called
Ingress I I don't know what it was
called when Stonebreaker actually did it
as his PhD thesis but so there's a whole
bunch of so so one time I don't know how
much it's been a while since I've been
in the in the backend code but there was
a whole there's a whole bunch of lists
and you know traversing all these lists
and it turns out that that's not very
efficient the with today's processors so
um I think they're mostly going away but
there was a whole lot of code that was
you so but
but the the
basic when you're when you're in the
backend code you could be looking at one
piece of code that was written 30 years
ago and you could be looking at another
piece of code that was written yesterday
and the rule is you have to match the
style wherever you are not just carry it
Forward no no you can't just go rewrite
the whole thing just because you like
the style better well I mean so normally
if I work on a project it's you know
whatever you touch you you update right
so if I touch a piece of code that's one
code page and it has these functions
I'll just modernize it you know not Mak
sure to not break everything else of
course but yeah no you kind of gotta
match the style whatever it is oh dear
so you gotta be you're fluent then not
just in C but in three decades worth a c
oh yeah there there are style there are
style guides of how you got to write it
and stuff like that right and there's a
ton of macros oh yeah which end up which
end up making your code look like it
does something does something completely
different it's an interesting challenge
so I don't mean to be that guy but has
anybody what am I has nobody
suggested gradual rust ification of the
code certainly certainly has been
brought up I think there's some
discussion about doing it but it's you
know they so the you know everybody
everybody's kind of I've heard this
story before right let's let's just
rewrite everything at rust and well or
part of it like lanus is doing
you gotta find you gotta find time you
know yeah it's fair there's there's
other there's other Pro problems to
solve besides writing it in Rust and you
know post the one cool thing about
having it in process is if process goes
away we don't have a memory
leak that's true that that's actually
true yeah it doesn't matter how poy set
it up at is yeah well actually we
actually do have our own memory you know
we don't have we don't use Al we use
something called pic which is you know
postgress alic and at the end of it this
once the process goes away or once the
request goes away actually the the
memory just goes back so there there
isn't really the memory leak problem
that you know people would like to think
there is and see that we don't have that
kind of problem we do you know it's not
not to say we don't have you know null
pointer errors but you know it's not as
dire as yeah thing and there's there's a
considerable amount of time that goes
into any patch to make sure that you
know there're you know there's a lot of
people looking at patches to make sure
that there's no bugs or obvious bugs and
things like that well of course so I
don't personally think there's like this
huge bang for your buck to rewrite
everything in Rust not well nobody's
talking about rewriting everything I'm
just wondering I I don't know uh uh I
have no idea literally no idea but I
I've noticed uh like even the Mr Mr
kudin himself lus tals
seems cautiously and
angrily
indulgent uh of some of these attempts
to often the fringes and the hindin of
the code
base conceptually rewrite some of those
things and of course there's a it's not
Inspire it's not making any friends you
know and I've noticed that in the
traffic there on the mailing list
there's this uh uh I mean didn't they
just have somebody who resigned because
of this and the guy that the person that
was working on that part of the effort
uh was just so fired and frustrated from
the
constant uh push back from the other C
code C maintainers that he just resigned
in frustration and it's not going well
so yeah I wouldn't wish that upon the um
the post Coast project but I do wonder
you know
uh you know the United States government
just put out a paper talking about how
they want memory safe languages uh of
course that was today's government we'll
see what
happens yeah anyway um you know they put
out out of paper ask encouraging people
to use memory safe languages and uh I
don't know that rust would make your
make post any faster but it might make
it more memory safe but if you've got
palac then maybe it's fine maybe we
don't care until that multi-threaded
thing starts to become a real thing you
know so you know because the government
says we want you to do it doesn't mean
you're gonna do it I mean no no it's
encouraged not they're more reliant on
postest than we are on them
so I get the I get get the I get the
desire to do that and I do think that
you
know it'll be harder and harder to find
people to to write in see versus rust so
ultimately you know it it will happen
it's just probably not well I'm working
on it oh I don't think that I I think
it'll be decades before the number of
rust programmers ever exceeds the number
of C programmers I mean I yeah I'm I'm a
a few years younger than you I think and
even I know C right like uh C's I don't
know Russ but I definitely know c i
could write C I don't want to just to be
clear don't send me Po request in C
please but uh but my point is I yeah I
think a lot of people know C you kind of
have to I think my my point here though
is that you know if you're if you're
just coming out of school and you got a
choice between which which language
you're going to focus on not necessarily
know everything you you probably
wouldn't choose SE you'd probably choose
something like rust because the
opportunities as you just mentioned the
government saying we want me more memory
safe languages you're probably going to
choose rust so you
know and finding are that are you know
going to work on postgress community or
a postgress code that'll be harder and
harder I think we do have you know
obviously people work in C so yeah I was
gonna say there's more jobs in C there's
there's it's not even close it's like oh
yeah of magnitude you know like it's
it's yeah I don't know I I think you
need to known both really is I guess
what I'm trying to say there's no world
where C doesn't
I mean and again I'm the Java guy don't
get me wrong but even I understand this
you know C is going to be here for
forever um yeah I don't know whatever
yeah screw rust who cares I I'm
just I don't know I mean uh maybe you
rewrite it in Java and just use grow VM
yes let's go I'm sure that happen
anytime soon yeah that yeah okay right
after uh right after the rust Port gets
done um uh yeah no that's I mean it's
just I didn't know all I'm saying is
that the fact that it's so freaking good
already and it's got this process model
I didn't even realize that I mean it
it's not low hanging food you know I'm
not saying that I'm just
saying it just seems like there's some
uh opportunities there that I didn't
even realize the fact that it's this
good despite all that uh is wow I mean
what an amazing piece of engineering you
know
uh and it was in list at at first I mean
that's uh that was quite a while ago
that was probably in the very early
night 90s as yeah still though nice
piece of software so why did you get
into post quiz in so this you had a
Microsoft uh contract you said why I had
a contract to do some work in you know
Java at the time you know it wasn't
really I I had I was doing it in Java
and I you know I bought a contract I I
don't know I was doing on windows so you
had Java and so that's kind of why I got
into the into the Microsoft contract
okay there was I don't think there was
any way who I mean son would have owned
Java at that time so yeah there wasn't
really and they owned it it wasn't open
source yeah yeah it wasn't really a way
to get a a sun contract for you know
support So Microsoft contract it was a
Microsoft developer it was remember you
could the msdn thing Microsoft developer
Network and you could yeah you could buy
a contract and get the CD yeah came with
a oh it came with a bunch of CDs right
yeah Vis Studio C++ six or five or
whatever it was yeah um all the visual
j+ let's not do that yeah
j++
exactly um
uh so so you got into post at the time
Oracle was already a known commodity uh
sbase was already a known commodity uh
post like you know how how entrenched
was it because this is before um you
know you said they only added sequel in
the mid 90s so like if you went to an
organization and said we're going to
build everything on postgress what was
the average response at the time I guess
I is what I'm trying to figure out right
so probably when I when I started I
wasn't really you know I was using
postgress as like a very wasn't an
Enterprise thing I think I got my first
bigger contract to do anything in
postgress probably in you know
2005 2008 maybe it was a
large uh grocery company in Canada that
wanted to switch off of hpu and um they
were using informix and they had a 4gl
language and um so they wanted to they
wanted to go all open source and so
there was people that were doing it at
that point but they were they were you
know we're talking about people that had
some Vision as to how open source was
going to play out there wasn't a lot of
people there at that time to do that for
sure well seems like a smart bet at the
time I mean I you know hear but foric
very often anymore so no you know they I
don't think that's survived that
particular CIO but uh for the time when
I was getting paid he was he was behind
it so um golf games um
uh what well you know you know another
database that I've always liked and I I
kind of wondered why this one I don't
actually have any understanding as to
why it didn't take off uh you ever use a
Firebird
I I'm aware of Firebird but I never used
it in any real capacity you you and me
and most of the world has never used it
like it's actually it was a one of those
nice databases that it was featureful
and I can't point to any reason why it
never really took off I can point the
reasons why post at
first you know no windows port and and
and the like but uh now I know I don't
know it just seems like I'm just
remembering that there was actually
another database that would have been
really nice compared to my seq 20 years
ago as well 25 years ago and yet uh
people still chose my sequel there's two
of them I think the you know the bigger
reason why people chose my sequel was
because you could click on the you know
the Debian or the red hat package and
say you know give me the lamp stack and
all of a sudden you know you had a stack
whereas there was no fireb stack there
you know a post stack so it was like you
know you just downloaded the the
packages and Away you went so and and
you know at the time my SQL was
certainly easier use in postc Crash so
yeah I guess I don't know I don't know
you have to set up the back then you had
to set up roles and you had to set up a
you know do all that stuff manually
whereas my SQL is just wide open
festering wound in the middle of your
security network yeah that's the way
they liked it yeah like yeah oh yeah
look at that Firebird axon interbase and
Derby is that Derby remember that that's
a SQL database for moral right or no IBM
IBM had that one
right H okay so okay so I enough I don't
mean to linger in the past it just it
just occurred to me there's this other
database out there um what is coming in
postris like it's uh um you know it's
obviously I think it's fair to say it's
the it's the standard these days I I
can't imagine using I think post has
brought us back from the no
sequel
uh era you
know there was this sort of I think
discontent 101 15 years ago uh around
the
offerings coming from the SQL databases
and the way I kind of see it is that we
were looking for um options in terms of
scalability and for specialized data
data types and now you know post is good
enough for most use cases and it has
these specialized data types like you
just said we have Json and we have XML
we have postgis we have H full textt we
have uh you know all the stuff that you
might have otherwise had to go to a
different Vector stores you know all
these different things that are the
foundations the basis the raise on De
for all these different data stores out
there so now postz is I think very much
the standard what's what's next what's
up look like you know upward and outward
I I wish I knew the answer to this
question I think I think like anything
else the thing that will happen next we
don't we don't really actually know what
we can't predict the future of the next
big thing but I think in general I think
what you're going to see is that you're
going to get a lot more performance out
of postgress a lot of people working on
that kind of stuff
um there is performance to be had just
you know we're working on on it you know
uh there's some you know some of the
people like Peter gagan working on
indexes and um we mentioned the PG
Vector stuff that kind of came out of
nowhere I I honestly couldn't tell you
what what the next big thing for postard
I would like to see clustering of some
kind I I do know that they're working on
incremental backup which is surprisingly
you think we'd already
have well but we don't
well one of the big challenges with
postgress now is the data is getting big
you know there there sort of um a couple
of different ways to back up your
database one is PG dump which basically
dumped the the the data in a text format
but now databases are so big that you
can't actually dump it in one day so if
you can't get it all out one day then
you can't get you can't get a daily
backup so we're star to look at
incremental backup uh which was just
added it's not really ready for prime
time but it's coming along there's a
couple of projects
uh that support backup now wait so it's
like a git file I mean like you have a
no no it's not a file it's basically man
it's basically manipulating the wall
logs incremental chunks of the wall log
okay so you because you know when the
last offset was when you took a backup
and you just take all the events yeah
yeah after okay I mean it sounds easy
but of course I'm sure it was a
excruciating oh there's there's a touch
of there's there's a bunch of stuff you
have to worry about there but so sure
yeah but I I'm sort of my my biggest
challenge with the postr is getting the
protocol
changed oh what
why uh why do I want it
changed for for performance and for more
information some of the stuff they you
know wasn't in there that we would like
in the J in the Java world uh or any
other client world for that matter it's
you know
one of the so one of the things I
mentioned earlier is you can get data
back in binary or text right you have to
you know avoid giving all the details
but you have to do an extra round trip
to uh get the types that you have to ask
for in binary oh I would like I would
like to just say at the beginning of the
session give me all these types in
binary I see so okay um but changing the
protocol is one of those things that you
know as you mentioned you got to get it
right and so get everybody else involved
uh as well right is this yeah that's
problem like it has to it has to be such
a way that you know everybody can use
the old protocol and still and then also
leverage the new protocol is there like
a versioning scheme for the protocol
itself like is it possible to do things
like this there is a versioning scheme
but we're working on a versioning scheme
that's a little more extensible and
we're still know we we've identified a
number of needs to to changing the
protocol but nobody's actually come up
with a
viable solution to actually you know
concrete solution to changing the
protocol so there is there has been
another protocol we're on version three
of the protocol version two protocol you
know sort of just it had been there
forever and kind of dropped off in the
last five years
so C could still use that if they wanted
to no the V2 protocol is gone okay good
riddens but it but it but it has you
know it has a surprisingly long lifetime
the uh the new generation of protocols
that's interesting I didn't think about
that
like I mean it is a classic client
server problem you have a evolving
consumers and producers obviously that's
G change so and imagine having a
protocol as multifaceted as SQL you know
like and the protocol itself is actually
pretty simple it's it's only not very
complicated um okay
but it's just uh changing it is
complicated just because you have future
proof it so right yeah well this is I I
think you I think you should do a talk
when whenever this stuff lands you I
would love I'm sure the software
industry would love to have a talk about
this because yeah the insights on of
moving changing the engine on a plane
while the plane is still flying you know
yeah exactly right it's
difficult oh okay so then what is uh
what's the big thing in the Java climent
because as you said you still have
to you know care for the Java 8 users uh
what's
the as I so as I mentioned I would like
to I would actually like to make the the
protocol more or the J the jdbc driver
asynchronous it's currently synchronous
I'd like to make it asynchronous uh we
have uh support for user defined types
we've got a poll request for doing that
that was done as a Google summer code
project the iy did most of it it's uh
hasn't got finished yet you know anybody
that wants to help out uh reviewing pull
requests I'm more than happy to have you
come on board that's one of the thing
one of the challenges is finding people
to actually review PO requests yeah well
this and this would can you imagine
getting a chance to work with you that
would be a real privilege I'm sure I'm
sure doing that with uh this is the
beauty of working in open source people
is if you get a chance to work with some
with somebody like Dave you're going to
learn something you know um so where do
people go to uh first of all where do
they go to
start kicking the tires looking at the
source code what's the canonical place
to find the code on which you work for
example uh let's see PG jdbc
doget I was gonna say you don't have a I
don't have it I just type it in it comes
up it's it's one of my you know the the
AI just knows where everything is in my
thing right
so it's a PG jdbc yeah does that come up
that come up with chat with everyone in
the studio or does that come up
as oh there you go yeah yeah there you
go excuse me friends gotta blow my nose
again okay so this is a this is the PG
jdbc code people can find you there and
uh if they want to learn more about the
drivers I mean I'm sure releases are
released there as well right yeah
everything is released there uh so it
basically comes from there um gets
pushed to Maven uh interestingly I I had
no idea I I I still have no idea how
this is possible but it gets 20 million
downloads a month oh I'm sure a million
of those are just me I mean I'm a huge I
I I it blew me away when I saw that
number I had no idea that it was that
large I'm sure it's actually markedly
bigger because there's a lot of
corporations that have artifact
repositories that are doing cashing I'm
sure it's 100 million or a billion maybe
even it's just you know it's such an
amazingly good project uh and like you
say you even the the hypers skaters are
converging on this it's it's one of the
true few things in open source where we
all just said yeah that'll do that we'll
we'll just I'll have that one you know
like we have Linux and post in in which
we trust you
know so that you know that sort of
reminds me that one of the things that
uh I you know some of the other people I
mentioned Bruce mja and a few other
people but one of the bigger things
that I they've said or I sort of live by
as one of the things I have to worry
about is just not breaking the thing so
there there's a Temptation like let's
let's add this let's add this let's add
this I go well you know it's not you
know let's just step back a bit you know
right is this really a feature that
everybody's going to use and you know is
it really worth doing because you know
breaking it would break a lot of lot of
people's code unfortunately I have done
that before Oh no how bad was that like
do you get pagers like minutes later or
what I don't get pagers but I get you
know people tell me oh this is broken so
you know either either have to revert
the the good thing about GitHub you know
you revert the poll request and you
issue it you know push out another uh
release and you know go back and think
about what you just did and maybe maybe
not do it or but you know it's but yeah
it does break a lot of code in a
hurry well because I mean I it's such a
stable project I wonder how many people
just automatically upgrade to the latest
and greatest anyway you know without
hesitation because it does work so darn
well over so much time you know well
with the pendot we see a lot of people
doing it now right they just you know or
if you or if you have a security release
all of a sudden it's like boom there
tons of
people uh we have a comment here hot
take cannot you cannot get worse than
that one common logging release which
broke everything I don't know to which
release that refers but okay uh anyway
there there have definitely been things
that break things that's for sure um so
that's good that's post that's pgj DBC
obviously post. uh postgresql org is the
the database I don't think I mean just
type that into a browser you'll get
where you're gonna where you're gonna
get going um what about yourself there
sir are you on the internet do you want
to be found and if so where can uh
people I'm not really on the internet I
do I do you know I don't have I don't
have a web page I don't really have too
much in the way of a Blog I'm on Twitter
as Dave Kramer uh I think I'm on Blue
Sky I think I just actually I heard that
everybody was moving to Blue Sky so I
I'm there I started it up again it's
nice we have cookies you know come on in
water the warm but Dave actually it's
just that Dave
Kramer oh dot it's no dots no nothing so
you oh did you do your own domain thing
no it's no no I have Beast just type it
in there for
you uh Dave
Kramer oh but you're Dave creamer.
bsky yeah okay so you know you can do
your own domain too you can actually say
uh like Dave kramer.com
I there's a couple other Dave Kramers
around so I probably probably lost that
opportunity well I mean no it's tied to
your domain if you if you put do you
have your own domain if if so uh you can
put DNS record in there and then Blue
Sky will give you authorative rights to
like for example my handle on Blue Sky
is Starbucks man. josl long.com because
I'm the authorative DNS holder for joshl
long.com I actually do have postgraft di
Rock so maybe I'll well there you go
just you can be that on Blue Sky um
there you go uh Dave this has been so so
good I I'm just a I'm a huge fan of
everything you're doing obviously I'm I
speak for millions of people when I say
that we're all big fans uh it's it's one
of the most instrumental projects on the
on the freaking planet and um it is
changing day by day even to the point
where a doar like myself can see it and
appreciate it you know there's Market
changes all the time that just make it
better and I I I couldn't be more
grateful um thank you for taking the
time today on a Friday uh it's been a
real real pleasure to talk to you thank
you so much thank you for having me on
here Josh it has been a pleasure enjoyed
every minute of it and I I'm a big fan
of your work as well so a you're
thinking of somebody else but I
appreciate that um okay everybody have a
nice weekend and uh you know be good to
each other bye bye